[VAN-124119][VAN-124120][VAN-124123] Snapshot sample application (#21)
visier/api-samples: time-machine/README.md

# Time Machine Sample Application

## Overview

Organizations frequently report HR metrics to external stakeholders and use them for internal scorecarding.
However, subsequent corrections to historical data can introduce discrepancies between the initially reported values and
the current ones.

> This project addresses the challenge of maintaining data integrity for accurate historical reporting and analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample application addresses the challenge of maintaining data integrity for accurate historical reporting and analysis.
```

It provides a solution to preserve original metric values, ensuring consistency and avoiding issues caused
by data corrections at a specific point in time.

## Solution

The sample application comprises two steps:

1. Downloading the current data state:
    - Use the Data Query API to download the current data state and save it in a temporary CSV file.
    - An aggregate query stored in a JSON file is required for this step. A sample query is located in
      [./queries/gender-resignation-joblevel.json](queries%2Fgender-resignation-joblevel.json).

2. Uploading this csv file using Data Upload API:
    - Use the Data Upload API to upload the CSV file.
    - The Visier platform maps this data to a pre-created Overlay, which will be used to access data as it was at a
      specific point in time.

> To process the uploaded file, the Visier Platform requires the creation of a Source, Overlay, and Mapping.

Reviewer: Should this be moved to prerequisites? It's done only once before the whole thing can run

Author: Moved.

Here are the instructions:

1. [Source creation](https://docs.visier.com/developer/Studio/data/sources/source-create.htm)
2. [Overlay creation](https://docs.visier.com/developer/Analytic%20Model/analytic-objects/overlays/overlays-configure.htm)
3. [Mapping from Source to Overlay](https://docs.visier.com/developer/Studio/data/mappings/mapping-add.htm)

Instead of manually creating the source, overlay, and mapping, you can import these pre-configured components from the
provided files:

> 1. [./import/WFF_d3m_source.zip](import%2FWFF_d3m_source.zip)- to import source.

Reviewer: Will this import work on tenants named something other than `WFF_d3m`?

Author: It worked, but there should be manually assigned Data Category and Tenant Settings.
I changed archives to have 3 parts:
1. source
2. data_category, tenant_settings
3. overlay and mapping

   Instruction how to import source: https://docs.visier.com/developer/Studio/data/sources/sources-import-export.htm
2. [./import/WFF_d3m_project.zip](import%2FWFF_d3m_project.zip) - to import tenant settings, data category, overlay,
   mapping.
   Instruction how to import project: https://docs.visier.com/developer/Studio/projects/projects-import-export.htm

## Usage

To save data periodically, this application should be run using scheduling software like cron.
The sample query
[./queries/gender-resignation-joblevel.json](queries%2Fgender-resignation-joblevel.json) fetches data for the last
completed month.
This means that the sample should be run once a month. If it is necessary this interval could be changed.

```json
"timeIntervals": {
"dynamicDateFrom": "COMPLETE_PERIOD",
"intervalPeriodType": "MONTH",
"intervalCount": 1
}
```

When run every month, this sample will upload the state of the data to the pre-created Overlay.

> The Overlay could be used to check what data was at a specific point in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Overlay retains all the uploaded snapshots which will enable historical analysis of the data as it was known at the time.
```
